Let's say your team just won a World Cup match.
Unlikely if you are English, I understand, but let's say you are French
and just beat the Swiss and you feel patriotic.
You open your phone, you go to your Twitter app, which gives you 140 characters
and the first thing you do is swipe through the keyboard,
you swipe through the emojis on your phone until you find the French flag.
And then you press the button and he probably gives you a nice, wavy flag here
and of course it helps a bit that the French flag is fairly easy to draw
compared to the British flag. That's it.
But once you've done that, one flag is entered, your number of characters will change directly to 138.
Why does that happen? You only entered one flag there
and you can enter even more complex characters. Emojis, generally
are very very long when it comes to binary representation,
but they count as one character.
Type an A, one character. A very complex emoji smiley, one character.
Why does the flag cost two characters?
The reason has to do with the Unicode Consortium.
They are the people who decide what goes in Unicode and they are the reason that you have 250 new emojis.
But they do not want to put flags in Unicode because flags change very often.
In the last decade more countries have been added, countries have been changed by military coups
or because the citizens revolted and so they have changed their flags.
And Unicode does not want to deal with that, so instead they have made something
called 'Regional Indicator symbols'
Yes, I can write fine on a whiteboard. That's it.
Regional indicator symbols.
And what they are are characters that are simply A to Z.
with dots around it. That is the official representation.
And what that button does, what that French flag does,
is that he does not type in a French flag.
In reality, he types in, behind the scenes,
what anyone who does not have the French flag as a picture will see,
an F and an R.
Fr.
That is the code for France, French sites also end on .fr.
That code is what all programs that do not support the French flag see.
The iPhone supports him. Android supports him in most cases.
I think modern versions of Windows still support him.
He takes those two characters and says 'oh, you mean the French flag!'
He puts them together, 'lies' to you and shows you only one character.
But the number of characters you have left is not, because Twitter sees them as two characters
because they actually are, they count as two
and your number goes down.
So that's it. Two characters, joined together as one, form the French flag.
It's that simple: that's why it takes two characters to make an emoji flag and not one.
And if that was pretty interesting, then I have a much longer video about what counts as a character
in my own language series and soon there will be an upload about emojis and their history here.
In the meantime, this is why two characters for a flag are needed
and that is something you may not have known.
This really does not happen.
Is this not a whiteboard paint?
This is just a wall, I have drawn on the wall
[Translation by Alexander]